So if you're new to Connect, Connect is an enterprise publishing platform for
static and dynamic content that you're creating with R. So that can include
documents, presentations, dashboards, and Shiny applications, and basically
anything that you're producing in R. It is an on-premises application, so you run
this on your own server behind a firewall if you want, and you're going to host it
on your own equipment there. And the goal is really around sharing data science
artifacts that you produced inside your organization. So if this is new to you, I
would recommend actually that you check out the introductory webinar that Bill
referenced a moment ago. So we recorded this two weeks ago, the recording is
available online, as are the slides. And I'd recommend that you start there
because we're going to be building on some of the foundation that we laid a
couple weeks ago. So if you are new to Connect, you might want to start there
before you jump into some of these more advanced topics. But without any further
ado, let's go ahead and dive into some of the content that we want to cover today.
So my goal for today is really just to give you pointers to the different
tidbits that I think are important for you to know if you're going to be
managing RStudio Connect in a production environment. And so I won't go
into too much depth about a whole lot of these, but really I just kind of
want to give you links and pointers to the different things that you might be
interested in if you are responsible for managing a production environment with
RStudio Connect. So pardon me if I'm kind of flying through some of these topics,
but feel free to ask questions and we can come back and do a little more
detail on some of these things later. Or just check out the links once
we post them online and hopefully you can kind of find the
information that you need there with the links that I provide. So today I want to
cover first of all user management, then secondly the management of resources on
the server, and then lastly we'll talk a little bit about kind of the system
management and system security implications for the server. So let's
dive into user management to get started. So we covered this a bit last time so I
won't belabor this, but we have three different user roles on the system. The
first is an admin user who has all privileges on the server and they can
access and kind of manage anything that they need to, but irregular actions are
audited and I'll dive into what that means here in a moment. Below that there
would be a publisher who's someone that can upload or publish content onto the
server, and then lastly there's a viewer who's just a consumer of content and
can't author content that gets executed on the server. So let's talk a little bit
about what the experience of a Connect administrator looks like. So first of all
they have access to special admin only actions and so for instance this
includes the admin tab, so if you're an admin on the user you're able to access
certain pages within the dashboard that other users aren't able to manage that
shows you things like metrics, you're able to manage users and things like
that, and then lastly you're able to customize some application settings that
other users aren't able to. So you can define vanity URLs for an application,
you can customize the run as argument for an application, and I'll show you
what all this means here in just a moment. But the trick is that you don't
get everything for free as an admin and so some of these things you're going to
be able to just hop on and start changing. Other things you're going to
actually have to go out of your way to explicitly grant yourself permission to
things that you otherwise wouldn't have had permission to do. So let's, I think
that's probably best covered by just an example, so let's look at an example of
this. So first of all this is me logged in as an admin user on Connect.
And so you can see here that first of all I have this admin tab and so that
takes me first and foremost to this metrics page where I'm able to view
information about the CPU and RAM usage across the server. I also have an audit
logs page here where I can view kind of different changes that have been taking
place on the server recently. And then lastly when I dive into particular
content, even though this is not authored by me, this is authored by someone else
and I don't have particular permissions on it, I am still able to go in and
define custom settings for this content. So for instance here I can define a
vanity URL. Let's take a look at kind of a more rich document here. So in this
case we have a schedule. I as an administrator, even though I don't have
special privileges on this document, I can go in and customize the schedule for
this content. I can define a vanity URL, change the run as user, etc. So I
as an admin have free privileges to be able to do some of these things. However
if you look at something like a document here that's private, so here I'm logged
in as a different user. This is the publisher user and you can see that I
for this content here I've defined it to only be visible to myself. So this means
that the admin user should not freely have access to this content. This is
sensitive content that the admin shouldn't be able to see. And indeed if I
go as the admin and I go to look at that content, this is the view that I get. So
you can see that I'm still able to manage the settings for that content
here but I do not have free access to be able to view that content. And so this is
kind of what we're talking about when we say the admin has the privileges to do
whatever they need to do on the server but they don't get everything for free.
So I am not able to view this content although I can go in and I can add
myself as a publisher or as a viewer because I'm able to manage the settings
on this content and at that point I would be able to view the content. And so
the trick here is that all of this though is managed when you make these
explicit actions to add or remove yourself to a particular bit of content,
all of those actions are going to be captured in the audit log that I
referenced earlier. So when I go look at the audit log you can see here that the
admin user assigned themselves as an owner as a collaborator on this app and
then they remove themselves as an owner as a collaborator on this app. So now while I am
able to do everything and navigate whatever I need to cover to be able to
manage the server, anytime I take those explicit options of kind of going out of
my way to take special privileges on an application that's going to be captured
in the audit log and that's kind of the balance that we try to strike here with
an admin. Lastly if you've missed this in our latest release the 1.441 release we
also do have the ability to download the source code for content. And again
that's only available to users that are explicitly granted
collaborator privileges. So I as an admin do not get free access to source
codes published on the server, however if I add myself as a collaborator then I am
able to download the source code for an application. So this is kind of the
balance that we tried to strike with an admin but I think it's important if
you're going to be managing a Connect server in production that you kind of
understand what the privileges of an admin actually encapsulate and what you
get for free and what you don't. So next we'll just kind of move on and a lot of
these things I'm just going to cover in rapid fire but the next one that I
wanted to cover is the default user role. So this is the setting that's managed in
the authorization section under the default user role setting and this is
basically the role that fresh users should take when they sign on to the
server. The default right now is publisher which means that when a user
signs up on your server or when they you know log in using whatever authentication
protocol you're using that user is going to become a publisher on the server
they're going to have access to publish new source code. If you want to change
that if you want to limit that so that default so that new users coming into
the server are just viewers you can change this configuration setting here
and make that a viewer and this is actually subject to change we've
considered actually making the default viewer and so in which case if you
wanted the default to be publisher you could of course override that here.
Another tool that you should be aware of if you're managing Connect is the user
manager command-line interface and this is a root only command-line interface
that allows you to interact with Connect in kind of a batch way and so
right now there's kind of a limited subset of what you can do with this
command but we envision this growing over time to capture more of the
interactions that you might want to take within Connect. So right now one
restriction is that the server actually does need to be stopped in order for you
for you to use the command-line interface here and that that's a
restriction that may be lifted here in the coming months but right now you can
access the tool at this location optr-studio-connect-bin-user-manager
and then you can run commands such as list to list all the users in the server
you can run alter to change a user for instance promoting a viewer to a
publisher or promoting a publisher to an admin user and you can also actually
dump the audit logs even in the CSV format here so if you wanted to navigate
and browse the audit logs on your own time or using your own tooling you could
do that here using this user manager tool. So something you should be aware
of and you can view all the documents in the admin guide for what different
endpoints are available in this command. Next there's an idea of user locking in
the server that you should be familiar with. So as of the time of this
recording in early 2017 we don't have a notion of user deletion and the reason
for that is that there are a lot of open questions around what should you do with
a user who's deleted, what should you do with their content, should you migrate it
to another user, should you keep it alive on the server or should you get rid of
it. So until we settle some of those questions right now we've kind of
settled on this compromise of user locking. So if you for instance have an
employee leave the company and you don't want them to have access to the server
anymore you can lock their account which forbids any further login or interaction
on the system they can't publish updates or new content to the server and they
also don't count against your license so they're not going to count as a named
user they're not going to take up the seat for your license when they're
locked. And also you should be aware that you can rename users and so if your goal
is just to get rid of a user who's taking up a username that you want you
can certainly just change the username for that user and lock it and then
create a new user account with the username that you desire. So that's a bit
about user management. We can transition into resource management now which is a
bit more of a complex topic. So one of the most common questions that we get
around Connect is the idea of resource budgeting or how large should my server
be and the problem or the difficulty in answering this question is that the
requirements here almost depend entirely on what your users are deploying. So if
you just have a couple of simple documents that you know a couple of
simple dashboards that are updated once a day that people are going to access on
your Connect server you could probably get away with some running this on you
know something like very very small even you know a Raspberry Pi could probably
handle that kind of workload. However if you're doing you know very intensive
shiny applications that are doing you know genomic analysis on multiple
gigabytes of data then your server requirements are going to be much much
larger. And so ideally if you if you have the luxury of being in a virtualized
environment where you can kind of scale up or down a server that that would
probably be your best bet. But otherwise if not you can kind of run a proof of
concepts and see what the hardware requirements are given the applications
and the types of work that your that your users are publishing to the server
and that's really the best way to kind of get a feel for what your requirements
should be in terms of hardware for the server. So in terms of the philosophy of
Connect on-demand requests are largely what we're servicing when when requests
are coming in and those are just going to be service best efforts. So you know
as a request comes in for a shiny application we're going to do our best
to spin up that shiny application and hope that there's enough memory
available on the server. So but there are some knobs and some tuning that you can
do to cap the resource requirements available to particular applications or
different different use cases. So first of all that around shiny there's there's
a notion of shiny scaling. So you can scale shiny applications and connect to
multiple processes. So if you're not aware R is single-threaded and Connect
can actually load balance a particular application across multiple independent
R processes running that at that same application. And so this is what's
managed here in the performance tab on a shiny app. So as an admin you can go in
and you can override particular performance settings for an application
and set for instance the number of max processes how many processes you know
under the heaviest load that you might be willing to run for this application.
And then down at the bottom here you can see kind of some of the scaling
parameters around how many connections should be supported per process. And then
the load factor is basically how quickly do you want to ramp up from the minimum
number of processes to the maximum number of processes as load increases.
The minimum number of processes as the name implies is the is going to guarantee
that in processes are running for this application at all times. The right
answer for this for almost all applications is zero. However if you have
an application that takes a really long time to start up and you don't want a
user hitting it having to wait multiple seconds or even minutes for the shiny
application to come online you might want to define this as one or even two
to ensure that that there's always a process available for incoming users. You
can actually cap this if you find that users are kind of you know setting
absurd minimum process values. You can actually cap this using the scheduler
dot min process limit setting and that will allow you to say no application
should ever define a min process that's greater than X. And so that that gives
you some control there. Next we've got a notion of shiny timeouts and so this
currently is a globe these are global settings. Eventually we envision that
these will be customizable by the application but these define two
different parameters. So first of all this defines the maximum amount of time
that you would want to wait on an application to start. And the default is
60 seconds which means that if a shiny application takes longer than 60 seconds
to start and come online we're going to assume that the process is having some
problems and we're going to give up waiting on it. If you find that you're
building shiny applications that indeed genuinely take longer than 60 seconds to
start you can increase this limit to say you know wait on that process a little
longer. The second value here is the minimum time that we should keep a
worker process alive after it goes idle. And so what this means is that after the
last user leaves process after they disconnect and the process is now empty
and not serving any shiny sessions we're going to wait five seconds and if no new
traffic comes in then we're going to reap that process. That's a pretty
reasonable default for average workloads but again if you're running these very
large processes that take a lot of time or take a lot of resources to start up
you might not want to reap the process that quickly. You may want to leave it
open for multiple minutes or hours or even overnight so that you don't have to
shut down and spin up these processes which might be an expensive operation.
Next we're stepping away from shiny and more into the notion of scheduled
reports. We do have a throttle around report concurrency in the latest version
of RStudio Connect. So this is managed in applications.schedule.concurrency
and this allows you to determine the number of concurrent scheduled reports
that you would ever want to run in parallel. And by default this is set
to two and so if you have 20 users who all set up their documents to run every
night at midnight rather than trying to run all 20 of those reports at one
moment which you know might cause them some resource contention or even some
stability problems on the server we're only going to run two at a time and
we'll just iterate through as quickly as we can to get all 20 reports executed
as close to midnight as possible. So if you find that you have more capacities
than two you can certainly up this limit to have multiple processes running
at the same moment or likewise if you need to tune that down you can.
The next notion of resources that you might want to manage is around the disk.
And so there are a few different things that we're going to store on disk.
So most obviously we're hosting the applications that your users are sending us.
And so first and foremost we're going to be storing on disk the content that your
users upload to us. We call these bundles but these are basically the application
and any associated data or metadata that's associated with those applications
that the user is going to give us. We store those in a compressed format and
basically we're storing the exact blob that the user has uploaded to us
originally. We're going to we're going to keep that retain that so that you
always have a copy of kind of what the user originally gave us. Next in order to
actually run the application we obviously need to unzip those bundles
and have them in a directory where we can actually start executing that code.
And so you will have one copy of each application that's actually laid out in
an unzipped folder where we can actually go have R run that code and access the
data associated with it if there is some. Next there's the notion of a pacrat cache
and we talked about this in the last webinar but we use a system called pacrat
to manage to kind of recreate the environment in terms of the R packages
that are available on the publishing environment or the you know the IDE that
your that your user is using. We try to
recreate that environment and server using this pacrat system. And so what
that means is that every time that a user publishes some code if they have a
particular version of a particular package we're going to compile that and
store it on the server as well. And so you're going to have one copy of each
version of each package and that is specific to the R version. So if you
support multiple R versions which we'll discuss here in a moment then you might
have multiple copies unique to each R version. However that being said all of
these are shared in the same library or same cache and so that means if you have
multiple users who have published the same version of ggplot2 using the same
version of R you're not going to be storing those copies redundantly they're
all going to be pointing to the same singular copy of that package. So we're
not we're not storing any any extra or wasted copies there but you will need to
kind of budget for these. Next we store some metrics. These are usually a pretty
small usage of the disk space but you know for instance you saw the RAM and
CPU usage that gets stored on disk. And then lastly we store the information
around R processes that have executed in the past, the logs associated with
them. I wouldn't expect that you'd ever see any disk concerns here unless you
have a user who's you know dumping multiple kilobytes of data to the log
each time somebody you know touches the slider on the Shiny application or
something absurd like that. But generally it's a pretty small consideration in
terms of disk. So this is just one snapshot of what our the beta.rstudio
connect server looks like right now. And so you can see here that we have over
2,000 applications or 2,000 bits of content that have been published to the
server. And we really do almost no policing on the server in terms of the
bundles that are uploaded. And so if you look into this in a little bit more
detail it turns out that there are a couple of applications in particular
that have multiple gigabytes of data associated with them which really bloats
up the the bundles on the unzipped package size. And so I would expect that
on a server that's actually you know if you're concerned about disk usage and you
want to police this a little more tightly I suspect that you'd be able to
drive this down even for a server that has lots of applications. But you can see
here that for 2,000 bits of content we have 85 gigabytes of disk usage and you
can kind of see kind of the ratios here of where that disk usage is coming from.
So in terms of managing the disk usage and kind of putting a capacity around
what you want to store there are a couple of knobs that you can tune here.
So the first one is around bundle retention and this allows you to
throttle the number of bundles that are going to be retained for each
application. And so as you saw as I as I previewed here a moment ago in RStudio
Connect 1.4.4.1 we now have the notion of being able to roll back an
application to a previous version or roll forward to a more recent version.
And that is all predicated on the idea that that your old bundles are still
alive on disk and that you haven't reaped them. And so by default we
actually retain all bundles forever and that might not be what you actually want.
You may say that having you know five copies of an application is plenty and
any version older than five versions ago you can go ahead and delete. And if
that's the case then you can just customize the setting here to set that
to a different value other than zero. And at that point we'll we'll start
deleting those those older bundles off of disk. Really here though you may find
more useful than actually configuring the setting just the idea of
introducing a policy which basically just says ask your users not to publish
very large sets of data alongside their applications. And so this is really where
large bundles come from is if you have you know a four gigabyte CSV file that
you're wanting to analyze in some R Markdown document the naive thing to do
would be to bundle that four gigabyte CSV file alongside your R Markdown code
publish that all as a single bundle which now means that every time that you
update your R Markdown code you're republishing those four gigabytes of
data which is going to consume a lot more disk space than you really need
because your data presumably is not being versioned
alongside the code that's actually analyzing that data. And so as a best
practice you should really probably provision your data separately on the
server and then just publish only the source code that's going to analyze that
data. And so if you push this data somewhere on the server and you make it
available in a you know kind of global directory where users can access it now
you'd be able to have the source code you know only publish the source code in
the bundle that would access that data rather than having to redundantly
publish the data every time you make a change to your source. Next and I won't
belabor this one because it's a usually a pretty small consume consumption of
disk space but we do have throttles around how many jobs we're going to
retain or how many process the process information that we're going to retain.
So by default we say we're going to keep up to a hundred processes associated
with each application and as soon as we have more than a hundred processes the
oldest ones are going to start getting deleted and likewise any process that's
older than 30 days we're going to start deleting off the disk. So as soon as
either of these constraints is violated the job is going to be deleted from disk
we won't have the process logs associated with that anymore. If you're
in an environment that's highly audited and you need to make sure that you have
you know the logs associated internally you can customize these settings to keep
older copies of jobs or more copies of jobs for each application. So kind of a
larger picture than a few things that you should consider from an IT
perspective. So first of all you can manage the server.data.dir setting which
by default is going to be var lib RStudio Connect. That's where we're going
to store our variable size data associated with Connect. If you have an
NFS share or something larger where you know you want kind of the bulky data
stored for Connect you can customize that setting and we'll put all the
data there. So in reality if you can keep the bundle sizes small the disk usage
should be probably under 100 gigabytes for a kind of medium traffic server.
If you're expecting that you're dealing with large data sets and people are
going to be publishing large bundles you might want more than that. But obviously
if you have the luxury of being an environment where you can have kind of a
scalable disk volume that would be the most ideal. But you're going to get the
best performance out of a fast disk so something like SSD is usually
appropriate for the kind of workloads that we're using here. An NFS should be
fine although you should consider performance make sure that it's a
performant network share. And do be aware that the SQLite database which can
be pulled out separately from from this data directory must be on local disk.
That cannot be on NFS. So that's everything other than the SQLite
database can be shared in NFS. And we discussed that a bit in the last
webinar so I won't go into more detail there. If you well sorry when you want to
run backups for RStudio Connect you know you can certainly use a snapshotting
system if you have you know that that luxury on your on your disk volumes. If
you don't have snapshotting then and you actually want to run a manual backup
then here are a couple directories that you should consider including in your
backups. So first of all obviously the var lib RStudio Connect directory which
is going to have all the all the data that we referenced earlier on bundles
and applications and process logs etc. And you should also consider including
etc RStudio Connect. This is going to include your config file and then some
other peripheral files that might be used to manage the server. And then of
course if you pulled your database out because of you know NFS concerns or
anything like that then be sure that you backup your database as well. In order to
do this you do need to bring the server offline run the backup in order to get a
consistent backup and then you can restart the server there. If you were
unaware we do support multiple versions of R. By default we're going to at
startup we're going to scan the most common locations for R and also look at
the path to try to find the versions of R that you have provisioned on the
server. If they're not in the most common locations or if you have R and
kind of a custom directory you can register those explicit R locations
wherever they are in your server. And all of this is documented in the Admin
Guide at the link that I referenced below. And now what's going to happen
then is every time that a user publishes you're going to we're going to do our
best to align the version of R that they're using to the version of R that
to the versions of R that you have available on the server. And there are a
few different alignment algorithms that we have available all of which are again
are described in this link here that I mentioned there. And so that would define
kind of how we go from the client version of R that they're using to find
the appropriate server version of R that you would want to use to associate with
that. Another feature that you should be aware of is the notion of a process
supervisor. And so this is basically a prefix that will provide entity R
process invocation. This is defined in applications.supervisor. And for
instance we provide the example here of running nice which is a Linux command if
you're unfamiliar that allows you to kind of set the process priority for a
given application. And so this is a prefix that we're going to run before
spawning R. And so in this case we're going to say give the nice priority level
2 and then invoke R. If for instance you have a shell script that needs to be run
before running R in order to provision certain resources on the server you
could use this to kind of define a custom shell script that's going to run
before running R. And there are some caveats around how you should invoke
this and how it kind of needs to behave but all of this is documented at the link
that I provide here. So if you're in a world where you do need to provision
certain resources before spawning R this may be of interest to you. Secondly
there's the notion of customizer run as user. So RStudio Connect has a
certain user that we're going to invoke R as. So the Connect server itself is
going to run as root but we don't spawn R as root. So we're going to spawn R as
the user RStudio Connect by default which is a user that gets created when
you run the installer. And the primary group for that user is the RStudio
Connect group. And all of this is described in more detail at this link.
But you can actually go in and start customizing that. And so if you define
globally a new application start run as user you can say I don't want to run R
as the RStudio Connect user by default I want to run it as someone else. And
that's totally fine and you can change that globally. You can also change that
per application. And so this is configured in the dashboard and you do
have to have admin privileges in order to change the setting. So only an admin
can modify the setting but basically this allows you to go in inside the
dashboard to a particular application and say rather than running as the
default user which again by default is RStudio Connect rather than running as
that user I want to run as a different user on the server. And so for this
particular process you can have it execute as a different user on the
server. And that allows you to make special system resources that may be
available only to particular users available to certain applications. And so
perhaps globally you want all your processes to run as RStudio Connect
user but there may be certain applications that require special access
to disk resources. If you're following that pattern of provisioning data on the
server before you know separate from the bundle perhaps you want to actually
customize and segment off certain data sets and say only certain applications
should have access to them. So you can do this using the standard Linux file
permissions and then you can just have the R applications that should have
access to those data sets run as a certain user who would have access to
them on the server. So that's certainly a feature that you should consider and be
aware of if you're in the world of trying to customize access to particular
system resources based on individual R applications. And do be aware that
any user that you specify does have to be a member of the primary group of
the default run as user which again is the RStudio Connect group. So you can't
just go in and specify any Unix user on the system and have them start invoking
R. You would actually need to make sure that those users are members of the
RStudio Connect group before they would be eligible or they would be candidates
to execute R through RStudio Connect. You can actually take this one step further
by enabling another setting which is applications.runAsCurrentUser and
now this does require PAM authentication and it defaults to false which is
disabled. But if you go in and you disable the setting and you're using PAM
then what that actually means is that you could have a Shiny application that
rather than running as a hard-coded user or even a custom hard-coded user this
the Shiny application will actually run as the user who is viewing the
application. And so again if you know this does require PAM because that means
that the user you know the user has already logged into the system we know
that their username is a valid Linux account on the server and so we can
actually go out now and start running the R process as them which means that
your Shiny application you know for instance if you're if you're in like a
Kerberos environment or something like that where you have particular resources
that are available to every user on the system and you want to know that the R
processes are the Shiny interactions that they're having are actually based
on the R processes running specifically as that user then this is a way to
accomplish that and all of this again is documented in the admin guide at this
link here that I provide. We also do support PAM sessions and so if you want
to use PAM to kind of provision additional resources before spawning R
you can specify a custom PAM service and more documentation is available in the
admin guide there. Alright so then moving on to the last section here around
system security and kind of some of the considerations that you should be
available that you should be aware of from a security standpoint. So first of
all as I suspect most of us know HTTPS is very important and so if you're
accepting usernames and passwords through your system then then you should
almost certainly be using TLS encryption or error HTTPS and so this is pretty
simple to define you just set up the HTTPS section you set up the listen and
the key and the certificate settings to define what port and what certificate
and what key you want to use for HTTPS. You can also set up the HTTP redirect
which will say for instance if you want to listen on port 80 for HTTP requests
and forward them on to HTTPS then this is a way that allows you to do that all
self-contained within the server and this is something that you should really
pretty strongly consider especially if you're accepting usernames and passwords.
Another thing that you can consider here around security implications would be
the notion of browser security and so there are a few different options that
you can configure all of which are documented in more detail at the link
that I provide here but we do support HSTS we have content type sniffing
customization you can change the X frame options and you can even define
custom HTTP headers that you want included on all requests that are going
out of the server and the best way to kind of verify that you've got some of
these settings available is SSL labs provides a great tool and if you go to
this link here you can actually point this at your server assuming that it's
public you can point this at your server and it'll run a suite of tests against
first of all your SSL certificate but also it'll kind of confirm that that you
have all these settings set appropriately and that your server is
appropriately locked down. I alluded to this earlier but we do support audit
logs and so this is something that you can monitor if you're interested in kind
of staying up to date with the system changes and the interactions that users
are taking on the server you know this is something that you should definitely
keep an eye on and if you want to do this in a more automated way or kind of
in a more customized way you can certainly consider dumping these to CSV
using the user manager tool and then inspecting them using your own tooling.
One other question that we get often is the idea of kind of separating staging
from production and this is something that is now supported in Connect now
that we support that the idea of exporting a bundle. So the best way to
accomplish this now and this is something that we do want to improve in
the future but the best way to accomplish this now would be to run two
different Connect servers one of which can be kind of your staging environment
where people can sort of publish content that they're that they're still working
on and then you know once it gets QA'd and once you're actually happy and
comfortable with the content you can export that bundle and then republish it
to a production environment and that will allow you to kind of separate the
staging from the production environment and if you're concerned about resource
contention between you know the staging environment and the production
environment this is kind of the best way to sort of wall off those two things and
to accomplish that. One other feature that you should be aware of that's kind
of nice if you're going to be managing this we do support two different
settings that allow you to provide just messaging for users and so the server
dot public warning is going to provide a custom HTML warning on the
unauthenticated landing page so when people visit Connect and they're not
logged in they'll see this public warning and then for logged in users you
can define the logged in warning setting and that will show a warning message
again on the kind of the landing page once once the user is logged in. This is
a great way to communicate if you're you know scheduling maintenance windows or
if you have you know information that you want to communicate to all of your
users this is a nice way to do that. Lastly the last topic I want to cover is
the notion of private packages and so PackRat is going to gracefully handle
all the public packages that you have whether they're on CRAN or Bioconductor
or even if they're you know hosted on GitHub or GitLab or anything like that
you know these are all going to work pretty well within PackRat without any
customization but private packages are a bit more complicated and so when you
have a private package the best way to actually facilitate this is to use a
private CRAN and so if you're able to set up kind of a private CRAN instance
and we have documentation it's actually not not nearly as complicated as it
sounds but basically if you're able to set up a private CRAN instance then that
that can just host your private packages and then what you can do is you can have
your users install those packages from that private CRAN instance and now you
know within your firewall you're able to kind of host your private packages and
then Connect would be able to pull from those or from that private CRAN instance
to be able to pull those packages down and install them just like it does from
the public CRAN instances so all of this again is documented here at the link
that I provide in the admin guide and it's actually not as intimidating as it
sounds but this is actually a really nice way just internally for you to kind
of version and manage your own R packages regardless of the fact that
it would enable them enable you to access them from the Connect instance as
well. Alright so that is kind of the the tour of the things that I wanted to
introduce around RStudio Connect. A few additional resources that I'll point you
to here so first of all if you haven't tried out Connect yet you can download
and install a 45-day free trial using this link here. The admin guide is
available all of the information that I've just covered is described and
documented in the admin guide and so the goal of this webinar is really just to
kind of highlight the specific points that you might want to consider out of
the admin guide but certainly if you're going to be managing a production
Connect server it would be well worth your while to spend some time
familiarizing yourself with the admin guide here. We do if you're kind of have
an IT bent we do have an IT Q&A page that's available for Connect that'll
answer some common questions that we get from IT folks. If you're looking to set
up authentication the authentication details are available here and lastly we
do have our release notes available online as well and so if you're
interested in kind of checking out the differences between particular versions
or seeing what the kind of you know more detailed changes that take place every
time we release a version then all of this would be available at this link
here. And so that is everything that I have and so let me go ahead and just
take a moment and pull up some of our questions and see if if we have any
questions that might be worth. Okay so the question is does RStudio Connect
have the equivalent of an obscured URL anonymous view only access like Google
Docs share URL. The use case I have in mind is so that we can have external
clients allowing them to view a shiny app hosted on our RS Connect server. So
this is not something that we support today. Basically everything that we that
we do is around kind of explicit authentication and so if you want users
to have access to a particular application then you would have to
explicitly add them to your content and then they would you know when they log
in they would be able to view that in your content listing and it would be
kind of fully enumerated for them. But that is an interesting feature request
and that's something that we should definitely keep in mind. Yeah so one
question here that you should be aware of around self-signing SSL certificates
and I'll point this out here so back on the HTTPS section it is not a problem
for you to self-sign a certificate when you set up HTTPS and the server
basically any valid certificate and key pair we would be happy to host for you.
One thing that you should be aware of though around custom certificate
authorities is the fact that while your browsers may be entrusted within your
organization while your browsers may be instructed to trust this custom
certificate authority when you're publishing from the RStudio IDE that is
using a different set of network connectors than the browser and so we're
usually using curl or you know whatever networking systems are available in your
server or on the desktop if you're using RStudio desktop. And so you do need to be
aware that not only do your browsers need to trust your SSL certificate but
also whatever systems you're using from the RSConnect package and IDE to publish
content onto the server which is often curl those also need to be instructed to
trust your custom certificates and so if you have any custom SSL certificates or
custom CA or an internal CA you do need to be aware that all of your RStudio
clients would also need to be instructed to trust that custom CA. Can you provide
an example of a functional run setup? Yeah so we definitely if you look into
our documentation we definitely have some some information some more details
on that and you would see certainly you know the most trivial application would
be just to customize a hard-coded user here and you can just define that you
know whatever user in whatever group that you want you can just define here
in this custom setting that should be pretty straightforward. Kind of these
more advanced applications around you know run as current user really just
depend on your environment and so I guess the reason that we don't have kind
of more details or kind of an example setup for this is that it really just
depends on what your environment is how you have you know Kerberos and PAM
configured and so a lot of that is just going to depend on kind of your
environment but definitely even if you're doing a trial even if you haven't
purchased the product yet I'd encourage you to contact support at RStudio.com
if you're you know encountering any troubles here or if you want kind of
help in reviewing the architecture or working with your IT folks to kind of
provision an environment that's going to be successful for your Connect instance
we'd be happy to work with you on that. But other than that I think that is
about everything that I was hoping to cover today so I think we are about good
to wind up.